---
title: "Master's Thesis: Detecting Immersion with Machine Learning"
subtitle: "A Physiological Data Approach to Understanding User Experience"
background: '/img/cities/munich.jpg'
draft: false
layout: post
---


**Immersion Detection in 2D media by means of Physiological data, a Master's dissertation submitted in order to obtain the academic degree of
Master of Science in Computer Science Engineering.**

During my master's dissertation, I explored the potential of Machine Learning (ML) in identifying connections between immersion in multimedia content and physiological signals, primarily focusing on modeling with electroencephalograms (EEGs).


#### Main Contributions:
- **Objective condition classification:** The study showed that EEG data can effectively distinguish between cases where users watch content in objectively different settings. 
- **Subjective rating classification:** The research also revealed that EEG data can accurately predict when a user will rate an experience as immersive.

#### Implications
My master thesis **emphasizes the feasibility of modeling cognitive processes such as immersion using EEGs**. These findings could enable personalized immersive experiences in emerging multimedia formats and have implications for various industries, including entertainment, healthcare, and education.

#### Acknowledgements

I have to thank the various researchers at Ghent University who helped me during my master's dissertation: Prof. dr. ir. Maria Torres Vega, Ir. Sam Van Damme, Ir. Mohammad Javad Sameri and Prof. dr. ir. Filip De Turck. <br/>
I'd also like to express my gratitude to Dr. Anne-Flore Perrin, for the data and prior research in the field of quality assessment of immersive media.

